








BYLAWS OF THE

RESEDA NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCIL May 17, 2024
Table of Contents


ARTICLE I	NAME	4
ARTICLE II	PURPOSE	4
ARTICLE III	BOUNDARIES	5
Section 1: Boundary Description	5
Section 2: Internal Boundaries	5
ARTICLE IV	STAKEHOLDER	5
ARTICLE V	GOVERNING BOARD	6
Section 1: Composition	6
Section 2: Quorum	7
Section 3: Official Actions	7
Section 4: Terms and Term Limits	7
Section 5: Duties and Powers	7
Section 6: Vacancies	7
Section 7: Absences	9
Section 8: Censure	9
Section 9: Removal of Governing Board Members	10
Section 10: Resignation	12
Section 11: Community Outreach	12
ARTICLE VI OFFICERS	12
Section 1: Officers of the Board	12
Section 2: Duties and Powers	12
Section 3: Selection of Officers	14
Section 4: Officer Terms	14
ARTICLE VII COMMITTEES AND THEIR DUTIES	14
Section 1: Standing Committees	14
Section 2: Ad Hoc	16
Section 3: Committee Creation and Authorization	16
ARTICLE VIII MEETINGS	17
Section 1: Meeting Time and Place	17
Section 2: Agenda Setting	18
Section 3: Notifications/Postings	18
Section 4: Reconsideration	18
ARTICLE IX	FINANCES	19
ARTICLE X	ELECTIONS	20
Section 1: Administration of Election	20
Section 2: Governing Board Structure and Voting	20
Section 3: Minimum Voting Age	20
Section 4. Method of Verifying Stakeholder Status	20
Section 5: Restrictions on Candidates Running for Multiple Seats	20
Section 6: Other Election Related Language	20
ARTICLE XI	GRIEVANCE PROCESS	20
ARTICLE XII PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY	21
ARTICLE XIII AMENDMENTS	21
ARTICLE XIV  COMPLIANCE	21
Section 1: Code of Civility	22
Section 2: Training	22
Section 3: Self-Assessment	22
Attachment A – Map of Reseda Neighborhood Council	23
ATTACHMENT B – Governing Board Structure and Voting	24
Reseda Neighborhood Council – 17 Board Seats	24


 ARTICLE I	NAME

The name of this officially recognized organization that is a part of the Los Angeles Citywide System of Neighborhood Councils is the RESEDA NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCIL (RNC).


 ARTICLE II	PURPOSE

The purpose of the RNC is to participate as a body on issues concerning our neighborhood and regarding the governance of the City of Los Angeles (“City”) in a transparent, inclusive, collaborative, accountable and viable manner.

Section 1: Mission. The MISSION of the RNC is to encourage community participation in City Governance.

1. To provide an inclusive and open forum for public discussion of issues of interest to the RNC, including City governance, the needs of the RNC, the delivery of City services to the RNC area, and other matters of a City wide nature;

2. To advise the City on issues of interest to the RNC, including City governance, the needs of the RNC, the delivery of City services to the RNC area, and other matters of a City wide nature;

3. To initiate, execute and support projects for the physical, social and cultural improvement of the RNC area; and

4. To facilitate communication between the City and Stakeholders on issues of concern to the community and/or the Stakeholders.

Section 2: Policy. The POLICY of the RNC is:

1. To respect the dignity and expression of viewpoints of all individuals, groups, and organizations involved in the RNC,

2. To remain non-partisan with respect to political party affiliation and inclusive in our operations including, but not limited to, the process of electing or selecting the Board of Directors, Officers, and committee members, as hereinafter set forth;

3. To utilize the Early Notification System (ENS) to the best of the RNC Board’s ability, inform the RNC of matters involving the City and our community in a way that is tailored to provide opportunities for involvement in the decision-making process;

4. To encourage all Stakeholders to participate in all activities of the RNC.
5. To prohibit discrimination against any individual or group in our operations on the basis of race, religion, color, creed, national origin, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, marital status, income, homeowner/renter status, or political affiliation; and

6. To have fair, open, and transparent procedures for the conduct of all RNC business.

Section 3: Execution of Purpose, The RNC shall direct that a system of outreach be instituted to inform Stakeholders as to the existence and activities of the RNC, including its Board elections, to find future leaders of the RNC, and to encourage all Stakeholders to seek leadership positions within the RNC. 

1. The RNC shall have a standing Outreach Committee, which will report its activities and recommendations to the Board monthly at the regular RNC meeting. 

2. The Council shall utilize electronic media including but not limited to a web site presence to disseminate information to Council Stakeholders and others interested in the Council to the extent practicable.

3. Outreach also shall be undertaken at public events and shall be coordinated with other Neighborhood Councils when appropriate. 


 ARTICLE III	BOUNDARIES

The RNC covers a geographic area described below.

Section 1: Boundary Description - The boundaries about the boundaries of adjacent Neighborhood Councils and include those areas of the City within the following lines of demarcation:

A. North – Roscoe Blvd

B. East – White Oak Ave

C. South – Victory Blvd

D. West – Corbin Ave

The boundaries of the RNC are as set forth in Attachment A – Map of Reseda Neighborhood Council.

Section 2: Internal Boundaries – Not applicable.


 ARTICLE IV	STAKEHOLDER
Neighborhood Council membership is open to all Stakeholders.  A “Stakeholder” shall be defined as any individual who:
(1)  Lives, works, or owns real property within the boundaries of the neighborhood council; or
(2)  Is a Community Interest Stakeholder, defined as an individual who is a member of or participates in a Community Organization within the boundaries of the neighborhood council.  
A “Community Organization” is an entity that has continuously maintained a physical street address within the boundaries of the neighborhood council for not less than one year, and that performs ongoing and verifiable activities and operations that confer some benefit on the community within the boundaries of the neighborhood council.  A for-profit entity shall not qualify as a Community Organization.  Examples of Community Organizations may include Chambers of Commerce, houses of worship or other faith-based organizations, educational institutions, or non-profit organizations.
[The definition of “Stakeholder” and its related terms are defined by City Ordinance and cannot be changed without City Council action.  See Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 22.801.1]
 
 ARTICLE V	GOVERNING BOARD

The Board of Directors (hereinafter “the Board”) shall be the Governing Body of the RNC within the meaning of that term as set forth in the Plan for a Citywide System of Neighborhood Councils (“the Plan”).

Section 1: Composition – The Board shall be comprised of seventeen (17) Board members (15 elected, 1 appointed Youth Board Member (YBM) and 1 appointed Young Adult Board Member (YABM)). Membership shall be comprised as follows:

A. Residential Community Stakeholder (RCS) – An RCS shall be any person who lives within the RNC boundaries as defined in Article III. There shall be three (3) RCS's.

B. Business Community Stakeholder (BCS) – A BCS shall be any person who (1) works in (2) owns a business (3) owns business or residential rental property located within the RNC boundaries defined in Article III. There shall be three (3) BCS's.

C. At-Large Community Stakeholder (ACS) – Open to all Stakeholders. There shall be nine (9) ACS’s

D. Youth Board Member (YBM) - Open to Stakeholders between the ages of fourteen (14) and seventeen (17) who either live, work, or are a student in Reseda and as further defined below. This position is precluded from voting on matters regarding the expenditure of funds, contracts, or recommendations to enter into contracts. A Youth Board Member shall be allowed to speak on such matters however. This position is a Board appointed position, and will not impact the quorum of eight (8). There shall be one (1) YBM

E. Young Adult Board Member (YABM) - Open to stakeholders between the ages of eighteen (18) and twenty-two (22) years who live, work, own property within the Reseda NC boundaries. This position is precluded from voting on matters regarding the expenditure of funds, contracts, or recommendations to enter into contracts. 

A Young Adult Board Member shall be allowed to speak on such matters however, this position is a Board appointed position, and shall count towards achieving the  quorum of eight (8). There shall be one (1)YABM


No single Stakeholder group shall hold a majority of Board seats unless extenuating circumstances exist and are approved by the Department of Neighborhood Empowerment (“the Department”).

Section 2: Quorum – The quorum shall be eight (8) members of the Board. No floating quorums are allowed.

Section 3: Official Actions – A simple majority vote by the Board members present and voting, not including abstentions, at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall be required to take official action, unless specified otherwise in these Bylaws.

Section 4: Terms and Term Limits 

A. The term for Stakeholder Board members shall be for four (4) years and be staggered such that every two (2) years, there are seats eligible for election. There are no term limits.
B. The term for Youth Board Member and Young Adult Board Member shall be for one year and shall run from June 1st until May 31st, and shall be considered vacant as of midnight May 31st every year.  The vacancies shall then be filled by the Board as specified below in Section 6: Vacancies.
Section 5: Duties and Powers – The primary duties of the Board shall be to govern the RNC and to carry out its objectives. 
A. No individual member of the Board shall speak for the Board or otherwise publicly represent a Board position unless authorized to do so by official action of the Board. 
B. The Board may, by official action, delegate to any individual the authority to present before any public body a standing RNC position previously adopted by the Board or a statement that the RNC has had insufficient time to develop a position or recommendation on a matter before that body. Such authority may be revoked at any time by the Board.
C. The authority to sign documents required by the city to hold events shall be held exclusively by duly elected or appointed members of the Board.  In no case shall the authority to sign documents required by the city to hold events be delegated to any individual who is not a current Board member.
Section 6: Vacancies – Vacancies on the Board shall be filled using the following procedure:

A. Residential, Business, or At-Large Stakeholder Vacancies.
1. Upon any resignation or other action that causes a vacancy of a Stakeholder seat, the President or Secretary shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda for the next regular meeting of the Board, and on every subsequent agenda until such time as the seat is filled.  In no case shall a vacancy be filled within less than thirty (30) days of the date of the vacancy to allow for community outreach. However, in no event shall a vacant seat be filled where the election to fill that seat is scheduled to be held within sixty (60) days from the date the applicant (Stakeholder proposing to fill the vacancy) tenders a written application to the Secretary or President.
2. Any Stakeholder interested in filling a vacancy on the Board shall submit a written application to the Secretary at any time before a vote is taken, and the application must specify the stakeholder category the applicant is running for.
3. If only one (1) Stakeholder has made application for a vacant seat, then a vote of the Board shall be taken, and the applicant installed by majority vote of the Board. If more than one (1) Stakeholder has made application for an empty seat, then an open and fair vote shall be taken by a show of hands at the next regular meeting by all Board Members present. The vote shall be presided over by the Chair. 

4. When a vacant seat is filled by the aforementioned process, it shall be filled only for the remaining term of that seat.  The elected stakeholder shall be given the oath of office, and be entitled to vote on any and all NC business, as allowed by the RNC Bylaws (Art. XIV Sec. 2).


5. Any Residential Community or Business Stakeholder position that becomes vacant either after a general election or due to resignation or removal, and which remains vacant after 60 days of community outreach to fill the position, will become an At-Large Representative position for the remainder of the term to facilitate efforts to appoint stakeholders to the position. 
This shall apply only to a maximum of one residential community seat and one business community stakeholder seat at any given time. Thus, only one seat in each category may be filled in this manner for a maximum of 2 (two) category changes at any one time. 
In the event a board position filled in the above manner becomes vacant, that seat immediately reverts back to its original category designation.
B. Youth Board Member (YBM) and Young Adult Board Member (YABM) Vacancies – Any interested applicants shall submit a written application prior to the last regular Board meeting that occurs in May or at any time thereafter until the seats are filled. Upon installation a new YBM/YABM shall receive the oath of office and be entitled to vote on any and all NC business, as may be allowed by the RNC Bylaws (Art. V Sec. 1 Para. D and Art. XIV Sec. 2) and DONE regulation.
1. Youth Board Member (YBM): If there are two or less applicants for the seat, then a vote of the board shall be taken, and the prevailing applicant installed by majority vote of the board. If there are three or more applicants there shall be a roll-call vote by the board of the applicants as a group.  Each board member may put down up to two names. The two applicants who receive the majority of votes shall move forward for a final vote by the Board.  A roll call vote by the board shall be called; each Board member shall give the name of the applicant for which they are voting for.  The applicant receiving the majority of votes shall immediately be installed as YBM.
2. Young Adult Board Member (YABM): If there are two (2) or less applicants, the board shall have an approval vote for each applicant, and provided they have garnered a majority of support from the board, the applicant(s) shall immediately be installed as YABM. If there are three or more applicants there shall be a roll-call vote by the board of the applicants as a group.  Each board member may put down up to two names. The two applicants who receive the majority of votes shall move to forward for a final vote by the Board.  A roll call vote by the board shall be called; each Board member shall give the name of the applicant for which they are voting for.  The applicant receiving the majority of votes shall immediately be installed as YABM
In the event that there is a three (or greater) way tie for majority of votes, or a two (or greater) way tie for second most votes, then all other candidates shall be eliminated, and a run off shall be held in a traditional manner, with each Board member having one vote to cast for one candidate, and the candidate(s) with the majority of votes shall be installed to the YBM seat(s). 
Section 7: Absences – Any Board member who misses three (3) regularly scheduled consecutive RNC Board meetings or, optionally, six (6) or more total Board Meetings during any twelve (12) month period will be subject to removal from the Board. Each RNC Board member absence shall be recorded in the RNC’s meeting minutes or other manner of RNC record keeping, and that, upon missing the required number of Board meetings for removal, the RNC Presiding Officer shall:

3. Notify the Board member of the absences and place on the agenda the removal of the Board member at a regular or special Board meeting whereupon the Board shall determine the validity of the absences as specified in the RNC Standing Rules before taking action to remove the Board member.
4. Removal of the identified Board member requires two-thirds (2/3) majority of the attending Board members at which moment the position is vacant.

Any regular scheduled monthly meeting of the RNC Board, scheduled and properly noticed as per the Brown Act, shall constitute a meeting for the purpose of determining Board member attendance.

Section 8: Censure – The purpose of the censure process is to place a Board member on notice of misconduct and to provide the Board member with an opportunity to correct the misconduct. The Neighborhood Council (“Neighborhood Council”) may censure any Board member at a regular or special meeting open to the public following a good-faith determination by the Neighborhood Council Board that the member has engaged in conduct that is contrary to rules and regulations applicable to the Board or that impedes the orderly business of Board operations. Grounds for censure include, but are not limited to, persistent disruptive conduct at meetings, violations or abuses of the Board’s bylaws or rules, violations of the Code of Conduct, acting on behalf of the Board without authorization, and misuse or abuse of the censure or removal process by acting in bad faith. 

The Board shall use the following procedure when censuring a Board member:

1. A motion to censure a Board member may be initiated by any three (3) Board members. Those Board members shall not constitute a majority of the quorum of any Neighborhood Council body, such as a committee. The motion shall be delivered to any officer of the Board or a specific officer or member of the Board as may be specified in the bylaws or standing rules of the Neighborhood Council. The motion shall be in writing and provide the specific facts and grounds for the proposed censure including the date(s) and specific conduct relied upon for the motion. The motion shall not
be based upon conclusions, e.g., “for alleged violations of the Code of Conduct” but shall contain factual statements that describe conduct only and is not intended to embarrass or humiliate the board member.

2. The Board member, group of Board members or committee responsible for setting the final Board agenda shall include the motion on the agenda of the next regular or special Board meeting scheduled at least thirty (30) days following the delivery of the proposed censure motion.

3. The Board member subject to censure shall be given a minimum of thirty (30) days prior-written notice, which may include email sent to the last email address on file with the Neighborhood Council, of any meeting at which the motion to censure will be considered. The notice shall provide the specific facts and grounds for the proposed censure as specified in 1 above. The Board shall also provide a copy of the notice to the Department of Neighborhood Empowerment a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the meeting at which the motion to censure will be considered.

4. The Board member subject to censure shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the meeting, either orally or in writing, prior to the Board’s vote on a motion of censure.

5. The Board shall decide by a majority vote of those present and voting whether or not the Board member should be censured. The Board member who is the subject of the censure motion shall not be counted as part of the majority present and voting and shall not be allowed to vote. For the purpose of censure motions, abstentions shall not be counted as votes.

6. In no event shall a motion to censure a board member be heard by the Neighborhood Council within sixty (60) days of the next scheduled Board election or selection.

Section 9: Removal of Governing Board Members – Any Board member may be removed by the Neighborhood Council (“Neighborhood Council”) for cause, following a good faith determination by the Board that the member has engaged in conduct that is contrary to rules and regulations applicable to the Board or that impedes the orderly business of Board operations. A Board member shall not be subject to removal under this Policy, unless the member has been censured at least once pursuant to the Board of Neighborhood Commissioners’ (“Commission”) Censure Policy. Grounds for removal include, but are not limited to, persistent disruptive conduct at meetings, violations or abuses of the Board’s bylaws or standing rules, violations of the Code of Conduct, acting on behalf of the Board without authorization, and misuse or abuse of the censure or removal processes by acting in bad faith. 

The Board shall use the following procedure when removing a Board member:

1. A motion to remove a Board member may be initiated by any three (3) Board members. Those Board members shall not constitute a majority of the quorum of any Neighborhood Council body, such as a committee. The proposed motion shall be delivered to any officer of the Board or a specific officer or member of the Board as may be specified in the bylaws or standing rules of the Neighborhood Council. The motion shall be in writing and provide the specific facts and grounds for the proposed removal action including the date(s) and specific conduct relied upon for the motion. The motion shall not be based upon conclusions, e.g., “for alleged violations of the Code of Conduct” but shall contain factual statements that describes conduct only and is not intended to embarrass or humiliate the board member. The motion to remove shall also include a copy of the prior censure motion and the date it was passed.

2. The Board member, group of Board members or committee responsible for setting the final Board agenda shall list and briefly describe the motion on the agenda of the next regular or special Board meeting scheduled at least thirty (30) days following the delivery of the proposed removal motion.

3. The Board member subject to removal shall be given a minimum of thirty (30) days prior written notice, which may include email sent to the last email address on file with the Neighborhood Council, of any meeting at which a motion to remove will be heard. The notice shall provide the specific facts and grounds for the proposed removal as specified in 1 above. The Board shall also provide a copy of the notice to the Department of Neighborhood Empowerment a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to any meeting at which a motion to remove will be considered.

4. The Board member subject to removal shall be given reasonable time to be heard at the meeting, either orally or in writing, prior to the Board’s vote on a motion for removal.

5. The Board shall decide whether or not the Board member should be removed by an affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the currently sitting Board members. The Board member who is the subject of the removal motion shall not be allowed to vote and shall not be counted when determining the two-thirds (2/3) majority vote. For the purpose of the removal motion, abstentions shall not be counted as votes.

6. In no event shall a motion to remove a Board member be heard by the Neighborhood Council within sixty (60) days of the next election or selection.

7. The Commission may review a Neighborhood Council’s removal decision if requested to do so by the affected Board member. Once the request is made for the Commission to review the decision to remove, the Neighborhood Council voting to remove the board member may not fill the vacancy created by the removal until the Commission has made a decision on whether the removal was proper or the Commission declines to review the matter. The Commission’s decision whether to hear or decline to hear the removal review request shall be sent in writing to the requestor and the Neighborhood Council within 30 days after the request for review is delivered.

8. A request for the Commission to review a Neighborhood Council’s removal decision shall proceed as follows:

a. The request must in writing and must be delivered to the Executive Assistant of the Commission or, in the absence of an Executive Assistant, to the President of the Commission within thirty (30) days of the date of the action by the Neighborhood Council to remove the Board member.

b. The request must state the basis for the review. The request shall not cite or present any evidence not considered by the Neighborhood Council but must address only procedural deficiencies.

c. If the Commission determines the request for review raises sufficient questions regarding procedural deficiencies and agrees to hear the review, it will be placed on the agenda of a regular or special meeting of the Commission within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for review.

d. At the review the Commission will determine if the facts as presented support the removal motion and if the procedures set out in this policy were correctly applied.

e. If the Commission determines that there were either factual or procedural deficiencies, the Commission may either reinstate the Board member or return the matter to the Neighborhood Council for further consideration.

f. If the Commission returns the matter for further consideration and the Neighborhood Council does not act within sixty (60) days of the Commission’s decision the Board member will be considered reinstated.

g. During the period of appeal the Board member shall not be counted as part of the Board for any quorum and shall not participate in any Board actions.

h. If the matter is returned to the Neighborhood Council for further consideration the Board member shall not be counted as part of the Board for any quorum and shall not participate in any Board actions until the Board takes action as requested by the Commission or until the expiration of the sixty (60) day time period.

9. This policy is not intended to restrict or eliminate a Neighborhood Council’s ability to remove or render ineligible to serve, Board members who fail to attend meetings, join committees, maintain their stakeholder status, or perform other duties as may be described in the Neighborhood Council’s bylaws and/or standing rules. Nor is it intended to limit a Neighborhood Councils ability to remove committee chairs or committee members according to the Neighborhood Council’s bylaws and/or standing rules.

Section 10: Resignation - A Board member may resign from the RNC by stating one’s intention in written communication, and the position shall then be deemed vacant. 

Section 11: Community Outreach – left blank


 ARTICLE VI OFFICERS

Section 1: Officers of the Board – The Officers of the Board (“Officers”) shall consist of a President, a Vice-President, a Treasurer, a Secretary, a Sergeant at Arms, and a Parliamentarian. These Officers shall be elected by the Board as provided below, and all must be members of the Board.

Section 2: Duties and Powers – The duties of the Officers are as follows and also include such additional duties as may be adopted by official action of the Board:

A. President – The President shall be the principal officer of the Board and shall be the presiding officer at meetings of the Board. The President shall exercise and perform such other duties as the Board may assign from time to time or as the Bylaws or Standing Rules may prescribe. The President shall have supervision over the business and administrative affairs of the RNC, and such officer shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the RNC. The President shall approve all orders directing the disbursement of funds. The President shall make an annual report covering the business of the RNC for the year, and recommendations for the ensuing year, which shall be read at the first General meeting where practicable of the Board and a copy thereof forwarded to the Department. He or she shall approve all outgoing official RNC correspondence. The President shall be an ex-officio member of any committee that has no board members. It shall be a requirement of the office that the President have a minimum of one year of experience serving on the RNC board or as chairman of one of its committees. 

B. Vice-President– The Vice-President shall act as a presiding officer in the absence of the President and, in case of vacancy in the office of President, or in the case of the President’s unavailability due to sickness, disability, death or resignation, the Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President and when so acting shall have all the powers and perform such other duties as the Board or the Bylaws may prescribe. The Vice-President shall be responsible for the oversight of all committees designated by the Board and as such shall not serve as the chair of any committee, to prevent any potential conflict of interest in overseeing the activities of committees and resolving any disputes. The Vice-President shall perform all other duties as the President or the Board may assign from time to time.

C. Secretary – The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the RNC herein defined as a clear and concise record of the Board’s actions, including the motions made and the vote thereon; see that all notices are given in accordance with the provisions of DONE; be custodian of the RNC's records, as defined in Standing Rules; perform  any other secretarial duties as requested by the President and/or the Board. The Secretary shall keep the Bylaws and Standing Rules up to date and shall keep an official list of all Board Members, Officers, and Committee Members and their terms, and keep a register of the addresses (including electronic address, if applicable) and telephone numbers of each Board member and Officer. The Secretary shall be a standing shall automatically become a committee member of the Bylaws and Standing Rules Committee upon assuming office. 

1. The Secretary may appoint an Assistant Secretary, which must be confirmed by the Board.  The Assistant Secretary may be any qualified stakeholder. The Assistant Secretary shall hold no agenda setting powers, but otherwise shall assist the Secretary with their duties and act in his or her absence. The Secretary may assign the assistant Secretary duties including, minute taking, recording of all official votes, gathering all physical records submitted at general meetings, and any other secretarial duties as they see fit.


D. Treasurer – The Treasurer shall keep the books and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of the RNC's transactions. The books and records, including books of accounts, shall be open to inspection by any Representative or Stakeholders of the RNC at all reasonable times. All books of accounts shall be kept in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and in accordance with these Bylaws.

E. Parliamentarian – The Parliamentarian shall ensure that the RNC's meetings follow the Brown Act then Rosenberg’s Rules of Order or such other rules as the Board adopts (insofar as such rules are not inconsistent with these Bylaws or with the law). The Parliamentarian shall ensure the meetings are undertaken in an expeditious. The Parliamentarian shall automatically become a committee member of the Bylaws and Standing Rules Committee upon assuming office. 

F. Sergeant-At-Arms – The Sergeant-At-Arms shall preserve order at all meetings and shall act as timekeeper.  They may be called upon by the President to help keep track of stakeholders who have questions during an agenda item to make sure their concerns are addressed and handled in an orderly fashion. The Sergeant-At-Arms shall perform such other duties as are usually incident to this office. The Sergeant-At-Arms should not use any physical contact to “preserve order”. It is advisable to summon law enforcement for assistance if faced with a dangerous situation.

Section 3: Selection of Officers

A. Officers shall be elected by a majority vote of the Board at the first general meeting during which the seating of the newly elected Board members occurs.

B. Any Stakeholder may nominate any Board member for any open Office of the Board with the exception that if a Board member has already been elected in that same meeting to a board position, they may no longer be nominated. Self-nominations are acceptable with the exception applying. After nominations close, the Board will vote by a roll call vote on each nominee for the respective Officer positions. The votes will be tabulated and a majority winner will be declared.

C. If there are two (2) candidates, and it is a tie vote, a runoff election will be held immediately. If this results in another tie, the winner of the seat will be determined by flipping a coin. If there are more than two (2) candidates for an office, and none receives a majority vote on the first election, a run-off election shall be held immediately between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of votes.

D. In the event of a permanent vacancy in the office of President, the Vice-President shall become the President until such time as the Board meets at the next Board meeting and holds an election for the office. In the event of a permanent vacancy in the office of Vice-President, Treasurer or Secretary, Sergeant-at-Arms, or Parliamentarian, the presiding officer shall nominate a replacement who shall be seated after approval by a majority of the Board present. The replacement shall serve for the remainder of the term of the office being filled.

Section 4: Officer Terms – The Officers shall serve two (2) year terms and serve at the pleasure of the Board. No President or Vice-President shall serve more than two (2) consecutive two (2) year terms in that office.


 ARTICLE VII COMMITTEES AND THEIR DUTIES

All Standing and Ad Hoc Committees shall be established by the Board and populated in a manner to be determined by the Board. Suggestions for committees may come from Stakeholders or from members of the Board, and all such suggestions shall be voted upon by the Board. Committees can be composed of and chaired by Stakeholders as well as Board members unless prohibited elsewhere in the By-Laws.
	
Section 1: Standing Committees – The Standing Committees of the RNC are:

A. Outreach and Public Relations – The Outreach Committee shall reach out to Stakeholders utilizing any acceptable means of media approved by the Board. The content of such distribution must be pre-approved by the Committee Chair and RNC President. The Committee shall also be charged with liaising with local media, including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, radio, television, internet/world wide web sites and cable broadcasters with upcoming activities, news, accomplishments and matters affecting the RNC.

B. Planning and Land Use Management (PLUM) – The Committee shall maintain liaison with relevant City agencies, and give advice pertaining to actions of the same agencies occurring within the boundaries of the RNC. Committee shall also liaison with stakeholders regarding any concerns over planning, zoning, or land use issues within the RNC boundaries. Committee Chair, or their appointed designee who must be an official committee member, shall be authorized to represent official RNC positions and reasoning regarding PLUM matters at City Hearings and meetings, or in other public venues or interviews.

C. Budget and Finance– The Budget and Finance Committee shall consist of at least two (2) appointed members and the elected Treasurer. It shall: ensure compliance with city financial policy; prepare the budget, and supervise accounting of all funds. It shall also create and maintain relationships with any and all private or public institutions offering grants, donations, or other encumbered monies. It shall be responsible for vetting any Neighborhood Purposes Grants submitted to the RNC.  It shall also be responsible for supervising the applications for any grants that the RNC may seek in the course of its activities.  The Board shall maintain direct management of monies or other considerations. 

D. Emergency/Disaster Preparedness/Community Safety – The Committee shall organize the RNC into a cohesive unit so that in times of disaster we are able to cooperate and assist law enforcement and relief agencies. The Committee shall develop a plan to coordinate resources at the City and county level and to establish communication between stakeholders and public safety officers in event of a local emergency. The Committee shall provide emergency services training for the RNC. The Committee shall form liaisons with appropriate private and public agencies to enhance community safety.

E. Youth & Education– The Committee shall form relationships with appropriate private and public agencies to enhance Youth involvement in community and educational affairs and to bring needed services to the Youth of our community. It shall perform outreach to identify future YBM applicants. All Youth Board Members are members of this Committee
F. Senior Advocacy – The Committee shall form relationships with appropriate private and public agencies to enhance Senior involvement in community affairs and to bring needed services to the Seniors of our community.

G. Economic Development – The Committee shall encourage local business participation in community affairs; maintain relationships with related City agencies, Non-Profits, and Chambers of Commerce to improve the economic health of the RNC area. This committee shall also participate in the development of and advocating for a vision for Reseda’s business community.

H. Bylaws and Standing Rules (BASR) – The Committee shall meet as necessary to review and recommend additions, modifications and revisions to the By-Laws and Standing Rules as referred to it by the Board or the Board Secretary.  If deemed necessary, Committee shall create a draft of amended bylaws or standing rules indicating the additions, changes or deletions and submit it to the Board for final approval. 

I. Health & Wellness- The Committee shall raise community awareness of health-related resources as well as to improve the health and wellness of the community through education and health promotion activities.

J. Mobility and Environment- The Committee shall advocate for the community’s concerns on all modes of transportation including but not limited to bicycling, mass transit, pedestrian, and automobiles. In addition, it will promote local cleanup and neighborhood pride efforts and address ongoing environmental sustainability interests.

K. Unhoused Neighbor Advocacy- The Homeless Advocacy Committee shall serve as a liaison between relevant city agencies and the Reseda Neighborhood Council on all issues and programs relating to homelessness. It shall perform outreach to connect the homeless and formerly homeless to available resources and services. It shall inform and educate stakeholders on the issues of homelessness in Los Angeles and advocate for the concerns stakeholders have over the issue. It shall work with community members to develop additional programs to help homeless individuals.

L. Community Space - The Community Space Committee shall be responsible for maintaining the Reseda Community Space in an orderly and clean condition. It shall consider ways in which the space may be improved to better serve the community, develop a plan of action, and bring these ideas to the Board for approval. It shall vet all groups interested in using the space to make sure they qualify. It shall maintain a schedule of reservations to maximize efficient usage by different groups and avoid scheduling conflicts. It shall be responsible for locking and unlocking the space and shall make sure there is proper supervision of the space while it is being used.  It shall keep an inventory of items present in the space and whether said items are property of the RNC, or on loan from stakeholders. It shall keep a record of all current key holders of the space. It shall provide access for any maintenance or repair crews as needed.

M. Executive – The Executive Committee shall consist of the RNC President, Vice President, Treasurer and Secretary. The Committee shall build the agenda for the General Meeting.  Any agenda items which cannot be previously vetted by a committee shall be vetted by the executive committee.

N.  Technology
Section 2: Ad Hoc – The Board may create Ad Hoc Committees as deemed necessary. Six (6) months after creation the Board shall review said committees and decide if the ad hoc committee(s) activities warrant disbanding the committee, renewing its ad hoc status, elevating it to a permanent RNC committee, or merging it with an existing committee. Ad hoc committees shall be agendized and noticed in keeping with the Brown Act.
Section 3: Committee Creation and Authorization

A. Committee Creation - With proper public notice at a regular Board meeting or special meeting the Board may establish Standing or Ad Hoc committees, or change an Ad Hoc committee to a Standing Committee. Any such action by the Board shall be noted in the RNC meeting minutes, and the Secretary shall cause any such addition of Standing Committees to be added to the ByLaws

B. Committee Authority – All committee recommendations shall be brought back to the full Board for discussion and action.

C. Committee Structure – Committee member candidates shall be appointed by the Committee Chair Person and ratified by the Board. Standing Committees shall be comprised of at least one (1) Board member and no more than four (4) board members, and may include any interested Stakeholders. Ad Hoc Committees shall be comprised of four (4) or less Board members and may include any interested Stakeholders. Ad hoc committees that include non- board member stakeholders shall be agendized and noticed in keeping with the Brown Act.

D. Committee Appointment – All Committee Chairs shall be appointed by the President and confirmed by the Board.

E. Committee Meetings – Committee meetings are subject to and shall be conducted in accordance with the dictates of the Brown Act. The Chairs shall keep a written record of Committee meetings and shall provide regular reports on Committee matters to the Board. Each committee shall establish a calendar of regular meetings for the next calendar year prior to the end of the current calendar year. 


F. Changes to Committees – With proper public notice at a regular Board meeting or special meeting the Board may establish, disband or make changes as needed to any Standing or Ad Hoc committee. Any such action by the Board shall be noted in the RNC meeting minutes, and the Secretary shall request any such change or removal of Standing Committees to be added to the Bylaws.


G. Removal of Committee Members – With the exception of the standing members, Committee members may be removed by the Committee Chair with ratification by vote of the Board. Committee Chairs may only be removed via a duly agendized item regarding same in a regular general RNC meeting, and requires a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the attending Board Members. 

H. Removal of Standing Committee Members - Anyone who is a standing member of a
committee in virtue of holding another office shall be automatically removed from any such committee if, for any reason, they no longer hold that office.

I. Mission Statement- All committees shall come up with a mission statement and a plan of action to implement it. The Plan of Action shall include yearly and quarterly goals.


 ARTICLE VIII MEETINGS

All meetings, as defined by the Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code Section 54950.5 et seq.), shall be noticed and conducted in accordance with the Act, the Neighborhood Council Agenda Posting Policy, and all other applicable laws and governmental policy.

Section 1: Meeting Time and Place – All meetings shall be held within the RNC boundaries at a location, date and time set by the Board. A calendar of regular meetings shall be established by the Board at its November regular or special meeting of each calendar year.

A. Regular Meetings – Regular RNC meetings shall be held at least once per month and may be held more frequently as determined by the Board. Prior to any action by the Board, there shall be a period of public comment. The Board shall determine the length and format of the period as appropriate.
B. Special Meetings – The President or a majority of the Board shall be allowed to call a Special RNC Meeting as needed.

Section 2: Agenda Setting – The President or Vice President shall establish the agenda for RNC meetings in accordance with Standing Rules. However, at any regular meeting of the RNC, any Stakeholder may request the inclusion of any specific agenda item for future meetings, and upon the concurrence of a majority vote of the Board, such item will be placed on the future agenda as requested.

A. No items may be added to the Agenda once it is posted. No action or discussion shall be undertaken of any item not appearing on the Agenda except in response to comments or questions made during Public Comment(s) in which case such responses shall be brief.
B. The Board, and committee chairpersons will be permitted to make:

? brief announcements, or
? to give a brief report on his/her activities, or
? to make a request of any City staff, or other resource present for factual information,
? or to request City staff to report back at a subsequent meeting concerning any matter

Section 3: Notifications/Postings – At a minimum, meeting notices shall be posted in compliance with the Ralph M. Brown Act and in compliance with City of Los Angeles Neighborhood Council posting policy. An updated listing of the Neighborhood Council’s physical posting location/s shall be kept on file with the Neighborhood Council.

Draft minutes shall be submitted 72 hours prior to next meeting to all board members and posted on web site.


Section 4: Reconsideration – The Board may reconsider or amend its actions through the following Motion for Reconsideration process:

A. Before the Board reconsiders any matter, the Board must approve a Motion for Reconsideration by official action. After determining that an action should be reconsidered, the Board has the authority to re-hear, continue, or take action on the item that is the subject of reconsideration.

B. The Motion for Reconsideration must be brought, and the Board's approval of a Motion for Reconsideration must occur, either during the same meeting where the Board initially acted or during the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting that follows the meeting where the action subject to the reconsideration occurred. The RNC may also convene a special meeting within these specified time frames to address a Motion for Reconsideration.

C. A Motion for Reconsideration may be proposed only by a member of the Board that previously voted on the prevailing side of the original action that was taken by the Board (the "Moving Board Member").

D. The Moving Board Member may make the Motion for Reconsideration orally during the same meeting where the action that is the subject of reconsideration occurred, or by properly placing the Motion for Reconsideration on the agenda of a meeting that occurs within the allowed
specified periods of time as stated above.

E. In order to properly place the Motion for Reconsideration on the agenda of the subsequent meeting, the Moving Board Member shall submit a memorandum to the Secretary at least two
(2) days in advance of the deadline for posting notices for the meeting. The memorandum must briefly state the reason(s) for requesting the reconsideration, and provide the Secretary with an adequate description of the matter(s) to be re-heard and the proposed action that may be adopted by the Board if the Motion for Reconsideration is approved.

F. A Motion for Reconsideration that is properly brought before the Board may be seconded by any member of the Board.


 ARTICLE IX	FINANCES

A. The RNC shall review its fiscal budget and make adjustments as needed to comply with City laws and City administrative rules, and to keep in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and the City’s mandate for the use of standardized budget and minimum finding allocation requirements.

B. The RNC shall adhere to all rules and regulations promulgated by appropriate City officials regarding the RNC’s finances, where the term “appropriate City officials” means those officials and/or agencies of the City of Los Angeles who have authority over Neighborhood Councils.

C. All financial accounts and records shall be available for public inspection and posted on the RNC website, if available.

D. Each month, the Treasurer shall provide to the Board detailed reports of the RNC’s accounts.

E. At least once each quarter, the President and at least one other individual other than the Treasurer, who is designated by the Board, shall examine the RNC’s accounts and attest to their accuracy before submitting the documentation to the Department for further review.

F. Each Committee shall submit an estimated budget for the next financial year to the Finance Committee by March 31st.

G. At least 60 days prior to the end of each fiscal year, the Finance committee shall prepare a budget for the next fiscal year and submit it to the board for approval.

H. No disbursement of moneys of the RNC shall be made for any purpose other than a purpose authorized by the Board.

I. Appropriations of moneys of the RNC shall be made by a duly adopted resolution of the Board, stating the amount to be expended or disbursed (which maybe expressed as a “not to exceed” or “up to” amount) and the payee.
J. The Treasurer is required to submit separate accounting statements regardless of whether the funds are received from the City or not.

K. In addition, the Treasurer shall be responsible for Bookkeeping. The Treasurer will set up and maintain an appropriate bookkeeping system for the RNC.

 ARTICLE X	ELECTIONS

Section 1: Administration of Election – The Neighborhood Council's election will be conducted pursuant to any and all City ordinances, policies and procedures pertaining to Neighborhood Council elections.

Section 2: Governing Board Structure and Voting – The number of Board seats, the eligibility requirements for holding any specific Board seats, and which Stakeholders may vote for the Board seats are noted in Attachment B.

Section 3: Minimum Voting Age – Except with respect to a Youth Board Seat, a stakeholder must be at least 16 years of age on the day of the election or selection to be eligible to vote.  [See Admin. Code §§ 22.814(a) and 22.814(c)]

Section 4: Method of Verifying Stakeholder Status – Voters will verify their Stakeholder status by self-affirmation.

Section 5: Restrictions on Candidates Running for Multiple Seats – A candidate shall declare their candidacy for no more than one position on the Board during a single election cycle.

Section 6: Other Election Related Language – Not applicable.


 ARTICLE XI	GRIEVANCE PROCESS

A. Any grievance by a Stakeholder or Board member must be submitted in writing to the Secretary who shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda for the next regular RNC meeting, but in any case no more than in thirty-five (35) days. The Neighborhood Council will follow the City’s policy and/or rules regarding the handling of grievances.

B. At that meeting, the Board shall refer the matter to an Ad Hoc Grievance Panel comprised of three
(3) Non-Board Stakeholders randomly selected by the Secretary from a list of Non-Board Stakeholders who have expressed an interest in serving from time-to-time on such a panel.

C. Within two (2) weeks of the panel’s selection, the Secretary shall coordinate a time and place for the panel to meet with the person(s) submitting a grievance to discuss ways in which the dispute may be resolved.

D. Within two (2) weeks following such meeting, a member of the panel shall prepare a written report to be forwarded by the Secretary to the Board outlining the panel's collective recommendations for resolving the grievance. The Board may receive a copy of the panel's report and recommendations
prior to a Board meeting, but, in accordance with the Brown Act, the matter shall not be discussed among the Board members until it is heard publicly at the next regular RNC meeting.

E. This grievance process is intended to address matters involving procedural disputes, such as the Board's failure to comply with Board Rules or these Bylaws. It is not intended to apply to Stakeholders who merely disagree with a position or action taken by the Board at one of its meetings, which grievances may be aired publicly at RNC meetings.

F. The Neighborhood Council grievance review process will be conducted pursuant to any and all City ordinances, policies and procedures pertaining to Neighborhood Council grievances.


 ARTICLE XII PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY

The RNC shall use Rosenberg’s rules of order when conducting RNC meetings. Additional rules and/or policies and procedures regarding the conduct of the Board and its committees and RNC meetings may be developed and adopted by the Board. All such rules and or procedures shall be in writing and shall remain in effect until either repealed or amended and a copy shall be available to all Board Members.


 ARTICLE XIII AMENDMENTS

A. Any Board member, or Stakeholder during public comment period, may propose an amendment to these Bylaws by requesting that the Secretary place the item on the agenda.

1. The proposal to amend the Bylaws shall be formalized in writing and noticed on the agenda for public discussion and Board vote at the next regular RNC meeting.

2. An amendment or adjustment to these bylaws requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Board members present at a duly noticed general or special meeting.

B. The Board can also refer to the Bylaws and Standing Rules Committee any other item for recommendation.
C. All changes shall then be forwarded to the Department for review and approval. Amendments shall not be valid, final or effective until approved by the Department. Once approved, any changes in the Bylaws shall become effective immediately.

D. The Board can create Standing Rules to implement the Bylaws and the Plan, and for creating effective administrative rules and procedures.


 ARTICLE XIV COMPLIANCE
The RNC, its representatives, and all Stakeholders shall comply with these Bylaws and with any additional Standing Rules or Procedures as may be adopted by the Board as well as all local, county, state and federal laws, including, without limitation, the Plan, the City Code of Conduct, the City Governmental Ethics Ordinance (Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 49.5.1), the Brown Act (California Government Code Section 54950.5 et seq.), the Public Records Act, the American Disabilities Act, and all laws and governmental policies pertaining to Conflicts of Interest.

Section 1: Code of Civility – The RNC board members, its representatives, and all Stakeholders shall conduct all RNC business in a civil, professional and respectful manner. Board members will abide by the Commission’s Neighborhood Council Board member Code of Conduct Policy.

Section 2: Training – Neighborhood Council Board Members, whether elected, selected, or appointed, are required to complete all mandatory trainings in order to vote on issues that come before the Council. Trainings available to Board Members are created to ensure success during their period of service. All Board Members shall complete mandatory trainings as prescribed by the City Council, the Commission, the Office of the City Clerk, Funding Division, and the Department. 

Board members not completing mandatory trainings provided by the City within forty-five (45) days of being seated or after expiration of the training, shall lose their Council voting and speaking rights on all items before the board and all votes they cast shall be nullified. YBM and YABM shall not be required to take financial trainings. Board members are strongly encouraged to take any other voluntary trainings as may be offered by the City from time to time. 

Upon installation, new board members shall be precluded from voting or speaking on matters regarding the expenditure of funds, contracts, or recommendations to enter into contracts unless they have completed all required trainings. They may vote or speak on all other matters subject to restrictions in Article XIV Section 2.


Section 3: Self-Assessment – Every year, the Council shall conduct a self-assessment pursuant to Article VI, Section 1 of the Plan.








 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Attachment A – Map of Reseda Neighborhood Council


ATTACHMENT B – Governing Board Structure and Voting
 
 Reseda Neighborhood Council – 17 Board Seats
 
BOARD POSITION # OF SEATSELECTED OR   APPOINTED
?ELIGIBILITY TO RUN FOR
THE SEATELIGIBILITY TO VOTE FOR THE SEAT
Residential Stakeholder Representatives Term: 4 Years
3
Elected
Stakeholders who live within the RNC boundaries and who
are at least 18 years of age or older.
Stakeholders who are at least 16 years of age or older.
Business Stakeholder Representatives Term: 4 Years
3
Elected
Stakeholders who work in, own a business, own businesses or residential rental property located within the RNC boundaries and who are at least 18 years
of age.
Stakeholders who are at least 16 years of age or older.
At-Large Representatives Term: 4 Years
9
Elected
Stakeholders who live, work, or own and/or who claim a stake as a Community Interest Stakeholder, and are at least 18 years of age or older.
Stakeholders who are at least 16 years of age
or older.
Youth Board Member (YBM) Term: 1 Year
1

Appointed
Open to Stakeholders who either live, work, or are a student in Reseda and are between the ages of fourteen (14) and
	seventeen (17)    
   Reseda Neighborhood Council Board
Members
Young Adult Board Member (YABM)
Term: 1 Year
1
Appointed
Open to Stakeholders between the ages of eighteen (18) and twenty-two (22) years who live, work, own property within the Reseda NC boundaries.   
   Reseda Neighborhood Council Board
Members
   


