ARTICLE I NAME

The name of this organization shall be the Sample Neighborhood Council, hereinafter referred to as "the Council".

Section 1: Purpose
The purpose of this Council is to represent the interests of the community in all matters of public concern.

Section 2: Scope
The Council shall serve the geographical area defined by the city boundaries of the sample district.

ARTICLE II MEMBERSHIP

Section 1: Eligibility
Membership shall be open to all residents, property owners, and business operators within the Council boundaries.

Section 2: Types of Membership
There shall be three types of membership: residential, business, and organizational stakeholders.

Section 3: Voting Rights
All members in good standing shall have equal voting rights on matters brought before the Council.

ARTICLE III GOVERNANCE

Section 1: Board Structure
The governing body shall consist of a Board of Directors with no fewer than nine (9) and no more than fifteen (15) members.

Section 2: Officer Positions
The officers shall include: President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer.

Section 3: Terms of Office
Board members shall serve two-year terms with no limit on the number of consecutive terms.

ARTICLE IV MEETINGS

Section 1: Regular Meetings
The Council shall hold regular monthly meetings on the second Tuesday of each month.

Section 2: Special Meetings
Special meetings may be called by the President or by petition of at least five (5) Board members.

Section 3: Quorum
A quorum for all meetings shall consist of a simple majority of seated Board members.

ARTICLE V AMENDMENTS

Section 1: Proposal Process
Amendments to these bylaws may be proposed by any Board member or by petition of at least twenty-five (25) general members.

Section 2: Approval Requirements
Amendments require a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Board and must be posted publicly for thirty (30) days before final approval.

Section 3: Effective Date
Approved amendments shall become effective immediately upon final Board approval unless otherwise specified.
